$at the spectacular mountain view
You are in mountains.  To see all the snow-capped monsters hereabouts,
you would need to look up and turn in a full circle.  Near here is a
deserted monastery.  It is said that a sect of mountain worshippers once
lived there.  It is reputed that they have hidden various treasures in
these parts.  It is also said that somewhere in these mountains there
lives a wise seer who knows the secrets of life.  Perhaps you will be
able to locate him.  Should you succeed in finding him and learning his
ways, you will receive many rewards.  Watch out for treacherous passages.
Do not necessarily believe all you see and hear.
$walking along a steep mountain trail
You are walking along a steep mountain trail.  The footing is tricky
here.  Several snow-capped peaks are now visible in front of you.
$walking along a narrow mountain trail
You are walking along a narrow mountain trail.  The footing is tricky
here.  Several snow-capped peaks are now visible in front of you.
$on a steep mountain trail
You are walking along a steep mountain trail.  The footing is tricky
here.  Many snow-capped peaks are now visible in front of you.
$on a narrow mountain trail
You are walking along a narrow mountain trail.  The footing is tricky
here.  Many snow-capped peaks are now visible in front of you.
$walking along a steep trail
You are walking along a steep mountain trail.  The footing is very
tricky here.  You see snow-capped peaks in front of you.
$walking along a narrow trail
You are walking along a narrow mountain trail.  The footing is very
tricky here.  You see snow-capped peaks in front of you.  I seem to
remember having been here before.
$scrambling through a rock-strewn col
You are scrambling through a rock-strewn col.  Above and below you are
ledges that look safer than where you are now.  Every now and then I
hear faint echoes of churlish voices.  It is difficult to tell from
which direction they come.
$in a tricky, rock-strewn col
You are trying very hard not to lose your footing.  This is a very
tricky, rock-strewn col.  Above and below you are fairly secure looking
ledges.  They are quite a distance in either direction, but I think
you could make it to either one safely if you are careful.
$in a col with ledges above and below
You are scrambling through a rock-strewn col.  Above and below you are
ledges that look safer than where you are now.  Every now and then I
hear faint echoes of churlish voices.  It is difficult to tell which
direction they come from.
$in a rocky col
You are in a rocky col.  It is difficult to see anything from here as
you cling to the mountain.  The air is cold and the wind whistles as
it blows across the bare rock-scape.
$in a rubble filled hollow
This is a rubble filled hollow.  Talus from the higher points in the
surrounding terrain has accumulated here over the eons.  It is quite
difficult to maintain your footing in places.
$in a hollow filled with rubble
"
$at a grassy mound
You have surmounted a grassy mound.  There is a pleasant meadow here
filled with colorful wildflowers.  The fragrance is stimulating.  I
think I see an ancient looking building in the distance.  It is
partially hidden from view.
$at an ancient monastery
You have found the ancient monastery.  The building is partially
collapsed and all the entrances have been blocked with undergrowth or
boarded up with great hand-hewn planks of what looks like very hard
wood.  The tatters of what must once have been a flag flutter in the
light breeze from a high and pointed parapet.  There is almost total
silence here apart from the sighing of the wind and the noise of birds
and small animals.  Yet there seems to be a ghostly echo of gongs,
cymbals, plaintive and monotonous chanting, and a rushing noise like
fire consuming an enormous pile of dead branches and leaves.  It leaves
an impression in the mind alone - the ears hear none of it.
The building leans into the sides of the steep mountain path.  Leading
to the now blocked front entrance is a set of broad wooden stairs.  Set
into the bottom of this staircase is a windowless wooden gate.  It is
hanging askew from its rotten hinges - I think you could squeeze by it
if you wished to.
$in a dank and musty cellar
You are in a dank and musty cellar. It looks like it might have once
been a storeroom for the monastery.  There are empty barrels standing along
the back wall.  There are rows of dusty shelves, mostly empty save for an
accumulation of cobwebs.  In the floor are two trapdoors or hatches made
of the same rough-hewn planks seen outside.  They both shut tightly.
$in an ancient catacomb
This is an ancient catacomb directly under the monastery.  The light is
extremely dim coming only from the cellar above down the steep stone
staircase.  The floor is littered with bones.  Bits of what appears to
be dried flesh still cling to them in many cases.
$on a steep mountain slope
You are on a steep mountain slope.  There is no vegetation here, you
have passed beyond the treeline.  The bare granite peeks out here and
there from beneath the fresh dusting of snow.  There are massive drifts
to either side. Tread lightly, avalanches are easily caused here by
sudden noises.
$on a slope beyond the treeline
You are on a steep mountain slope.  There is no vegetation here, as you
have passed beyond the treeline.  You see bare granite here and
there from beneath the fresh dusting of snow.  There are massive drifts
on either side.  Tread lightly, avalanches are easily caused here by
sudden noises.
$on a slope surrounded by drifts
You are on a steep mountain slope.  There is not any vegetation here.
You are past the treeline.  Bare granite peeks from beneath the fresh
snow.  There are also massive drifts to either side of the narrow trail.
I would be extremely careful about loud noises - avalanches have been
known to be caused by incautious travelers.
$on a slope bereft of vegetation
You are on a steep mountain slope.  There is not any vegetation here.
You are past the treeline.  Bare granite peeks from beneath the fresh
snow.  There are also massive drifts to either side of the narrow trail.
I would be extremely careful about loud noises - avalanches have been
known to be caused by incautious travelers.
$on a slope with granite underfoot
You are on a steep mountain slope.  There is not any vegetation here.
You are past the treeline.  Bare granite peeks from beneath the fresh
snow.  There are also massive drifts to either side of the narrow trail.
I would be extremely careful about loud noises - avalanches have been
known to be caused by incautious travelers.
$in a deep ravine
You are in a deep ravine.  All you can see is the tattered clouds
above.  They are racing along beneath the blue sky, carried by the
calamitous mountain gales.
$in a deep crevass
You are in a deep crevass.  There is a ridge above you - I think you
might be able to scramble back up with some effort.
$in a bitterly cold deep ravine
You are in a deep ravine.  All you can see is the tattered clouds
above.  They are racing along beneath the blue sky, carried by the
calamitous mountain gales.  Although the sun appears now and then
it is bitterly cold here.
$on a steep pitch
You are on a very steep pitch.  The bare rock beneath your feet is
treacherous in the extreme.  Any false moves here and you will not live
to tell your grandchildren about them.
$on an extremely steep pitch
"
$on a very steep pitch
"
$on a steep pitch with bare rock
"
$on a pitch with bare rock
"
$on a mountain peak
You have reached a magnificent mountain peak.  All around you lies the
grandeur of the mountain range.  You can see several other peaks.  They
look so near you could almost reach out and touch them, yet they must
be several miles away, even as the crow flies.  The wind here howls in
your ears, but does not diminish your pleasure in the vista.
$on a splendid peak
"
$on a magnificent peak
"
$on a grand mountain peak
"
$on a peak
"
$atop a saddle like formation
You are atop a saddle like formation.  In some directions there are
dropoffs and in others the trail continues upward.
$on a saddle
"
$atop a saddle
"
$in a mountain cave
This is a mountain cave.  It continues on into the heart of the
mountain.  The passageway is very narrow and filled with debris.
There are pits in the floor of the cave.  Some contain the remnants
of fires: charred wood and ashes.  Some of the wood is very strange
looking - sort of whiteish and quite long and narrow.
$deep in a cave
You are in a cave in the very root of the mountain.  It is pitch
black in here.  I wouldn't stay long - there are nameless things which
see in the dark.
$in a dimly lit mountain cave
This is a mountain cave.  The light here is dim, but further along
the passage there appears to be an opening from which it issues.
There is a draft coming from the darker side of the passageway.  It
whistles along and now and then seems to whisper.  You can almost
make out faint words, but they make you shudder and want to turn
away.
$in a cave
This is a mountain cave.  The light here is dim, but further along
the passage there appears to be an opening from which it issues.
You feel a slight draft on your face.
$in a cave in pitch dark
You are in a cave in the very root of a mountain.  It is intensely
dark here - you cannot see a hand held inches from your face.  As you
move, you brush against tendrils of a feathery substance.  It makes
your flesh crawl.
$in a cave with bones strewn about
This is a mountain cave.  There are remnants of cooking fires here.
There are old bones strewn on the floor.  There are strange looking
runes or symbols of some sort carved into the walls.
$in a shallow gully
You are in a shallow gully.  It seems to deepen further ahead.
$in a deepening gully
You are in a deepening gully.  In one direction it seems shallower.
I can't say for sure, but in the other direction there may be an
opening into the side of the mountain.
$on a barren hill
You have surmounted a barren hill.  There is the barest hint of foliage
here, but most has succumbed to the rigorous climate and the altitude.
$at a sheltered place
This is a sheltered place in the path.  It is a very deep cut in the
side of the mountain, not quite a cave, but much more than a mere
depression.
$on a narrow ridge
This is a narrow ridge.  The trail is only a foot or so wide here and
negotiating it will be quite a challenge.  There are precipitous
dropoffs in some directions and the chasm yawns beneath you.
$on a very narrow ridge
This is a narrow ridge.  The trail is only a foot or so wide here and
negotiating it will be quite a challenge.  There are precipitous
dropoffs in some directions and the chasm yawns beneath you.
$at the grandest peak
You have reached the grandest peak in the entire mountain range.  Here
there is almost an entire acre of flat from which to view the
surrounding peaks.  All of the other pinnacles are spread out beneath
the one you have reached.
On the far side of the small flat of the peak is a wizened old man.
He appears to have been here quite some time.  Perhaps he can tell you
some interesting tales.
$chasm
You have fallen off the mountain side.  The chasm that yawned beneath
you has claimed you for its own.  The drop of several thousand feet may
not have been enough to finish you off, but the sudden stop at the
bottom certainly was.
$nowhere
$cellardown
$at fountain of youth
You have located the fountain of youth.  Never a wrinkle shall grace your
countenance.  Your quest is culminated.  Congratulations.
$trtalk
There are several huge, ugly mountain trolls lolling nearby.
Unfortunately, they have spotted you.  Quickly and rudely you are
surrounded and bound with rough thongs of ragged and grisly leather.  No
doubt the remains of the trolls last and (for them) meagre meal.  Now
they have you!!
With great gusto they truss you up to a gnarled and charred hardwood spit.
This, of course, is accompanied by flaying you and using the strips of your
flesh to make your bonds even more secure.  They then slowly roast you to
a turn over their hastily built fire.  You make a fine meal for these
famished, gluttonous villains.
The last sounds heard by your erstwhile, but discretely hidden, guide are
those of vast troll contentment.  Snores, great rude belches, slavering over
the last remnants of roasted flesh on what were your bones, and other more
unspeakable sounds.  I beat a hasty retreat from this gruesome location and
bid you better luck in your next re-incarnation.
$wmmblab
The wise man of the mountain speaks:
'I am exceedingly pleased at your obeisance and your gifts.  In return
for your devotion, I offer you a word.  That word is: wadda.  Use it well,
my son.'
$wmmharp
The wise man of the mountain lifts a deep hood covering his face.  He gazes
at the items arrayed before him and speaks:
'You give me great displeasure oh profligate servant.  Of silver and gold
I will have none.  Treasures of the earth are but transitory baubles to be
scorned and discarded.  Take them from my sight and bring me gifts of worth
to the spirit.  I would sooner have one molar from the jaw of a troll than all
these worldly goods.  If you seek my wisdom, you will need this charge.'
$wmmhello
The garbed figure comes toward you.  He speaks:
'Welcome, my child.  You have achieved much simply to reach my mountain peak.
If you bring to me the treasures that I seek, then you shall know the secret
of everlasting youth!  Go now and fulfill your quest.'
$wmmsp1
The wise man speaks:
'So you return, my child.  I have been exceedingly occupied by my efforts at
omphaloskepsis.  You will excuse me if I do not linger.'
$wmmsp2
The wise man speaks:
'A seer once told me that only those who persist succeed in finding the true
secrets of existence.  Do not despair, your quest has just begun.  You have
much to learn and much to gain.  I must now feed and tend my yak.'
$wmmsp3
The wise man speaks:
'Have you read any good scrolls lately my child?'
$wmmsp4
The wise man speaks:
'Contemplation is good for the soul, my child.  But music and prayer also heal
many wounds.'
$wmmsp5
The wise man speaks:
'All that is gold does not glitter, my child.  A little wine for the stomach's
sake.  A stitch in time saves nine.  Don't take any wooden nickels.  A flush
beats two pair any day, but then I don't have indoor plumbing up here.  Am I
boring you?  Maybe I should go say my prayers.'
$tgablure
The trolls seem very excited.  I can't tell what they want more - you or
those bones you are carrying.
$tgabbones
The trolls seem to have lost interest in you - at least for the moment.
They are gathered around the bones you have dropped.
Wait...  They are attacking the bones with great gusto.  There are crunching
noises and sounds of breaking teeth.  I would take this opportunity to make
tracks.
$trhungry
Several huge, ugly, mountain trolls are lolling nearby.  Unfortunately,
they have spotted you.  They slaver and utter gutteral blasphemies.  They
gaze longingly at the bones you are carrying.  They rise.  They seem to
want to follow you.  I would find a good, out of the way place to ditch
those bones if I were you!
$trfollow
You are being shadowed by several huge, hairy, rude, and hungry mountain
trolls.  They slaver and mumble in their gutteral speech.  You can barely
understand, but the general idea is that they are famished and want bones
and flesh.  Perhaps it is yours that they will get!
$helpspiel
Help arrives in the form of a distant voice carried on the wind...
'Sorry, this help line is out of order.'
