$START
You are standing by a hole in the ground.  It looks big enough to climb
down.
$GRANDROOM
You are in a huge open room, with an immense expanse of ceiling.  A dark
passage leads west and a narrow crawl leads downward.
$VESTIBULE
You are in the entrance to a cave of passageways.  There are halls leading
off to the north, south, and east.  Above you is a tunnel leading to the
surface.
$NARROW1
You are in a narrow passage that continues to the north.  It is extremely
narrow to the south.  A very tight crawl also leads east.  A curious odor
seeps through it.  I would think twice before trying to go that way.
$LAKESHORE
You are on the shore of a vast underground lake.  Narrow passages wind away to
the east and south.  A small island is visible in the center of the lake to
the north.
$ISLAND
You are on a small island in the center of a huge underground lake. Dark,
frigid waters surround you on all sides.  You can barely make out the
shoreline to the south.  A message is scratched in the dirt here.  It says:
'The treasure may be found in the maze.'
$BRINK
You are on the brink of a steep incline.  The bottom of a pit is over fifty
feet below you.  You could probably slide down safely, but I won't promise you
that you could climb back up.  To the west is a rubble-filled tunnel.  A
vampire bat just flew out of it shrieking.
$ICEROOM
You are in a room whose walls are formed from a deep blue crystalline ice.  To
the north a narrow tunnel opens.  From the other end of this tunnel an ominous
growling sound may be heard.  To the east a sparkling luminescence emanates
from a broad opening.  To the west a passage leads back to the vestibule.
$OGREROOM
You are in a low room whose walls are covered with grisly dark gouts of dried
blood.  The center of the room is dominated by a firepit, which contains
burned out coals and a long spit suspended over its center.  From one corner
emanates a horrible growling noise like that of some unspeakable monster
dreaming of rending you limb from limb and making you its dinner.
$NARROW2
You are in a very narrow east/west passage.  To the west the passage opens
out by a lake shore.  To the east it becomes even tighter than it is here.
You might be able to squeeze through if you try real hard.  There is also a
strange looking alcove in the south wall that seems to open into a very dark
tunnel.
$PIT
You are at the bottom of a fifty foot pit.  The walls are just a hair too
steep to climb.  The pit is empty except for a few old dried bones.  I can't
tell whether they are human or not!!  In the center of the pit is a narrow
shinny leading further downward.
$CRYSTAL
You are in a dazzling hall of crystal glass.  It is intensely cold here, but
also chillingly beautiful.  There are glass formations rising from the floor
as if they had grown there, yet delicately sculptured with multi-faceted
sides.  A searing white light shines blindingly through the floor, itself
formed from fine mirror smooth lead crystal.  The light sets off reflections
that corruscate through the room and make it virtually impossible to tell
where the room begins and where it ends.  There might be an exit to the east,
although my eyes could be betraying me.
$BATSCAVE
You are in a steep cavern filled with shrieking vampire bats.  They swoop and
dive at you by the thousands.  I would suggest a hurried departure.  There are
openings to the west and north.
$STEAM
You have entered a room filled with a stifling steamy vapor.  There are
innumerable small geysers scattered about the floor of the room, each
contributing its own steam to the general mist.  To the west is a dark opening
and another to the north.  Further out in the middle of the room an opening in
the floor is barely visible through the mist.  Some of the vapor seems to ooze
through the opening as if it continued downward.
$DEADEND
This is a dead end.  There is a cryptic message etched in the stone of the
walls here.  It reads: 'GOOD THINGS GO THROUGH SMALL PASSAGES.'
$LADDER
You are at the base of a huge ladder reaching up and out of sight.  It must
extend up at least 500 feet.  It will take someone very brave in heart to
scale it. There are also passages here which lead to the north and down.
$MAZE
You are in a maze of featureless passages.
$STAIRS
You are on a steep stairway of rough-hewn granite blocks.  Your lamp only
penetrates the gloom for a few feet in either direction.  Above you is a
doorway leading to a large room.  Below is a dark and drafty continuation of
the stairway.
$ECHOES
You are in a vast underground cavern. The slightest sound seems to create a
resonating wave of echoes.  It is difficult to even hear yourself think.  To
the north an opening leads to a downward slanting corridor which quickly bends
out of sight.  In the center of the cavern, there is a set of rough stairs
leading downward.  Behind you a similar set of stairs leads upward.
$WARMROOM
You are in a confined space which is more like a widening of the corridor than
a room.  The corridor itself ends abruptly here, but a narrow shaft opens
downward.  There is a faint red glow to be seen if one peers into the shaft
and a warm draft of slightly sulfurous smelling air emanates from that open-
ing.  The corridor slants downward to the south.
$INCLINE
You are in a twisting, downward slanting corridor.  The corridor forms a
Y-shaped intersection here with passages leading up, east, and west.
$HONEYCOMB
You are in a room with numerous honeycomb-like openings leading out.  The
largest of these appear to lead south.
$ROUNDROOM
You are in an almost spherically shaped room with exits to the west, north,
and down.
$MUDROOM
You are in a room filled with thick, knee-deep mud.  Trickles of water flow in
from a narrow opening high above you on the west wall.  A passage leads up
from here and another down.
$DEEPPOOL
You are standing by a deep underground pool.  The water is ice cold, but clear
as crystal.  There is nary a ripple on the surface.
$COLDROOM
You are at the bottom of an icy cold underground pool.  If you don't get out
quickly, you'll either drown or freeze to death or both.
$NARROW3
You are in a slanting N-S passage.
$NARROW4
You are in a sloping N-S passage.  A narrow slit opens downward, from which
emanates a warm, sulfurous draft.  A very faint red glow may also be seen
through the slit.
$RIVER
You are standing on the eastern shore of a swiftly running N-S underground
river.
$ROCKYROOM
You are in a room filled with irregularly shaped boulders.  To the east a low
opening below a huge boulder leads to an alcove of some sort, and to the south
the passage continues along the river bank.
$SILTROOM
You are near a large underground deposit of silt.  A passage leads upward.
From it steadily oozes a flow of thick mud which must contribute to the
deposit.  Passages also lead north and west.
$ALCOVE
You are in a small nook off a large room filled with boulders.  The only exit
is to the east.  To the west you can see into the boulder room, but the exit
is blocked by a large, slippery boulder.  A note here says: KEEP ON DIGGING!
$FLAMES
Unfortunately, you have fallen into an underground lava pocket.  It is the
source of the heat that produces the geysers in the steam room.  You have
been, to put it politely, 'toasted to a crisp!'
